We currently represent the todos in the state free as an array of todo object. However, in the real app, we probably have more than a single array and then todos with the same IDs in different arrays might get out of sync.

00:15 This is why I wanted to treat my state as a database, and I'm going to keep my todos in an object indexed by the IDs of the todos. I've renamed the reducer to ByID and rather than add a new item at the end or map over every item, now it's going to change the value in the lookup table.

00:38 Both toggle todo and add todo object is now going to be the same. I want to return a new lookup table where the value unto the ID in the action is going to be the result of calling the reducer on the previous value under reducer ID and the action.

00:57 This is to reduce a composition but with an object instead of an array. I'm also using the objects spread operator here. It is not a part of ES6 so you need to enable transform-object-rest-spread in babel reducer file, and you need to install babel plugin transform-object-rest-spread for this to work.

```js
const todos = (state = [], action) => {
  switch (action.type) {
    case "ADD_TODO":
      return [...state, todo(undefined, action)];
    case "TOGGLE_TODO":
      return state.map(t => todo(t, action));
    default:
      return state;
  }
};

// change

const byId = (state = {}, action) => {
  switch (action.type) {
    case "ADD_TODO":
    case "TOGGLE_TODO":
      return {
        ...state,
        [action.id]: todo(state[action.id], action)
      };
    default:
      return state;
  }
};
```

01:18 Anytime the ByID reducer receives an action, it's going to return the copy of its mapping between the IDs and the actual todos with updated todo for the current action. I will let another reducer that keeps track of all the added IDs.

We keep the todos themselves in the ByID map now, so the state of this reducer is an array of IDs rather than array of todos. I switch on the action type and the only action I care about is a todo because if I new todo is added, I want to return a new array of IDs with that ID as the last item.

01:59 For any other actions, I just need to return the current state, that is, the current array of IDs. Finally, I still need to export the single reducer from the todos file, so I'm going to use combined reducers again to combine the ByID and the AllIDs reducers.

02:19 You can use combined reducers as many times as you like. You don't have to only use it on the top-level reducer. In fact, it's very common that as your app grows, you'll use combine reducers in several places.

02:32 Now that we have changed the state shape in reducers, we also need to update the selectors that rely on it. The state object then get visible todos is now going to contain ByID and AllIDs fields, because it corresponds to the C of the combined reducer.

```js
import { combineReducers } from "redux";
// ...
const allIds = (state = [], action) => {
  switch (action.type) {
    case "ADD-TODO":
      return [...state, action.id];
    default:
      return state;
  }
};

const todos = combineReducers({
  byId,
  allIds
});
```

```js
// create
const getAllTodos = state => state.allIds.map(id => state.byId[id]);

// add getAllTodos(), replace state to allTodos
export const getVisibleTodos = (state, filter) => {
  const allTodos = getAllTodos(state);
  switch (filter) {
    case "all":
      return allTodos;
    case "completed":
      return allTodos.filter(t => t.completed);
    case "active":
      return allTodos.filter(t => !t.completed);
    default:
      throw new Error(`Unknown filter: ${filter}.`);
  }
};
```
